### HostRule 

HostRule CRD is primarily targeted to be used by the Operator. This CRD can be used to express additional virtual host
properties. The virtual host FQDN is matched from either Kubernetes Ingress or OpenShift Route based objects. 

A sample HostRule CRD looks like this:

    apiVersion: ako.vmware.com/v1alpha1
    kind: HostRule
    metadata:
      name: my-host-rule
      namespace: red
    spec:
      virtualhost:
        fqdn: foo.region1.com # mandatory
        enableVirtualHost: true
        tls: # optional
          sslKeyCertificate:
            name: avi-ssl-key-cert
            type: ref
          sslProfile: avi-ssl-profile
          termination: edge
        gslb:
          fqdn: foo.com
        httpPolicy: 
          policySets:
          - avi-secure-policy-ref
          overwrite: false
        datascripts:
        - avi-datascript-redirect-app1
        wafPolicy: avi-waf-policy
        applicationProfile: avi-app-ref
        analyticsProfile: avi-analytics-ref
        errorPageProfile: avi-errorpage-ref
        analyticsPolicy: # optional
          fullClientLogs:
            enabled: true
            throttle: HIGH
          logAllHeaders: true


### Specific usage of HostRule CRD

HostRule CRD can be created in a given namespace where the operator desires to have more control. 
The section below walks over the details and associated rules of using each field of the HostRule CRD.

#### Enable/Disable Virtual Host

HostRule CRD can be used to enable/disable corresponding virtual services created by AKO on Avi. This removes any virtual host related configuration from the data plane (Avi service engines) in addition to disabling traffic on the virtual host/fqdn.

        enableVirtualHost: false

This property can be applied only for secure FQDNs and cannot be applied for insecure routes. The default value is `true`.

#### Express HTTP policy object refs.

HostRule CRD can be used to express httppolicyset references. These httppolicyset objects should be pre-created in the Avi controller.

        httpPolicy: 
          policySets:
          - avi-secure-policy-ref
          overwrite: false

The httppolicyset currently is only applicable for secure FQDNs and cannot be applied for insecure routes.
The order of evaluation of the httpolicyset rules is in the same order they appear in the CRD definition. The list of httpolicyset rules are
always intepreted as an `AND` operation.

AKO currently uses httppolicyset objects on the SNI virtualservices to route traffic based on host/path matches. These rules are always at
a lower index than the httppolicyset objects specified in the CRD object. In case, a user would want to overwrite all httppolicyset objects
on a SNI virtualservice with the ones specified in the HostRule CRD, the `overwrite` flag can be set to `true`. The default value  for  `overwrite` is `false`.


#### Express WAF policy object refs.

HostRule CRD can be used to express WAF policy references. The WAF policy object should have been created in the Avi Controller prior to this
CRD creation.

        wafPolicy: avi-waf-policy

 This property can be applied only for secure FQDNs and cannot be applied for insecure routes.
 WAF policies are useful when deep layer 7 packet filtering is required.
 
#### Express custom application profiles

HostRule CRD can be used to express application profile references. The application profile reference should have been created in the Avi Controller 
prior to this CRD creation. The application profile should be of `TYPE` of `APPLICATION_PROFILE_TYPE_HTTP`.

        applicationProfile: avi-app-ref
 
 This property can be applied only for secure FQDNs and cannot be applied for insecure routes.
 The application profiles can be used for various HTTP/HTTP2 protocol settings.

#### Express custom analytics profiles
HostRule CRD can be used to express analytics profile references. The analytics profile reference should have been created in the Avi Controller prior to this CRD creation.

        analyticsProfile: avi-analytics-ref

 This property can be applied only for secure FQDNs and cannot be applied for insecure routes. The analytics profiles can be used for various Network/HTTP/Healthscore analytics settings, log processing etc.


#### Express custom error page profiles
HostRule CRD can be used to express error page profile references. The error page profile reference should have been created in the Avi Controller prior to this CRD creation.

        errorPageProfile: avi-errorpage-ref

 This property can be applied only for secure FQDNs and cannot be applied for insecure routes. The error page profiles can be used to send a custom error page to the client generated by the proxy.


#### Express datascripts
HostRule CRD can be used to express error datascript references. The datascript references should have been created in the Avi Controller prior to this CRD creation.

        datascripts:
        - avi-datascript-redirect-app1

This property can be applied only for secure FQDNs and cannot be applied for insecure routes. The datascripts can be used to apply custom scripts to data traffic. The order of evaluation of the datascripts is in the same order they appear in the CRD definition.


#### Express TLS configuration

If the kubernetes operator wants to control the TLS termination from a privileged namespace then the HostRule CRD can be created in such a namespace.

        tls:
          sslKeyCertificate:
            name: avi-ssl-key-cert
            type: ref
          sslProfile: avi-ssl-profile
          termination: edge

The `name` field refers to an Avi object if `type` specifies the value as `ref`. Alternatively in the future, we will be able to support a kubernetes
`Secret` as a `type` where the sslkeyandcertificate object can be created by AKO using the Secret. 

`sslProfile`, additionally, can be used to determine the set of SSL versions and ciphers to accept for SSL/TLS terminated connections. If the `sslProfile` is not defined, AKO defaults to the sslProfile `System-Standard-PFS` defined in Avi.

Currently only one of type of termination is supported viz. `edge`. In the future, we should be able to support other types of termination policies.

#### Configure GSLB FQDN

A GSLB FQDN can be specified within the HostRule CRD. This is only used if AKO is used with AMKO and not otherwise.

        gslb:
          fqdn: foo.com

This additional FQDN inherits all the properties of the root FQDN specified under the the `virtualHost` section.
Use this flag if you would want traffic with a GSLB FQDN to get routed to a site local FQDN. For example, in the above CRD, the client request from a GSLB
DNS will arrive with the host header as foo.com to the VIP hosting foo.region1.com in region1. This CRD property would ensure that the request is routed appropriately to the backend service of `foo.region1.com`

This knob is currently only supported with the SNI model and not with Enhanced Virtual Hosting model.

#### Configure Analytics Policy

The HostRule CRD can be used to configure analytics policies such as enable/disable non-significant logs, throttle the number of non-significant logs per second on each SE, enable/disable logging of all headers, etc.

        analyticsPolicy:
          fullClientLogs:
            enabled: true
            throttle: HIGH
          logAllHeaders: true

The AKO sets the duration of logging the non-significant logs to infinity by default. It is the responsibility of the user to disable the non-significant logs when it is no longer required.

#### Status Messages

The status messages are used to give instanteneous feedback to the users about the reference objects specified in the HostRule CRD.

Following are some of the sample status messages:

##### Accepted HostRule object

    $ kubectl get hr
    NAME                 HOST                  STATUS     AGE
    secure-waf-policy    foo.avi.internal      Accepted   3d3h

A HostRule is accepted only when all the reference objects specified inside it exist in the Avi Controller.

##### A Rejected HostRule object

    $ kubectl get hr
    NAME                     HOST                  STATUS     AGE
    secure-waf-policy-alt    foo.avi.internal      Rejected   2d23h
    
The detailed rejection reason can be obtained from the status:

    status:
    error: duplicate fqdn foo.avi.internal found in default/secure-waf-policy-alt
    status: Rejected
    
#### Conditions and Caveats

##### Converting insecure FQDNs to secure

The HostRule CRD can be used to convert an insecure host fqdn to a secure one. This is done by specifying a `tls` section in the CRD object.
Whatever `sslKeyCertificate` is provided for the FQDN, will override all sslkeyandcertificates generated for the FQDN. This maybe useful if:

* The operator wants to convert an insecure ingress FQDN to secure.

* The operator wants to override any existing secrets for a given host fqdn and define tls termination semantics. 

##### Certificate precedence

If the ingress object specifies a Secret for SNI termination and the HostRule CRD also specifies a sslKeyCertificate for the same `virtualhost` then the
sslkeycertificate in the HostRule CRD will take precedence over the Secret object associated with the Ingress.

##### HostRule deletion

If a HostRule is deleted, all the settings for the FQDNs are withdrawn from the Avi controller.

##### HostRule admission

A HostRule CRD is only admitted if all the objects referenced in it, exist in the Avi Controller. If after admission the object references are
deleted out-of-band, then AKO does not re-validate the associated HostRule CRD objects. The user needs to manually edit or delete the object
for new changes to take effect.

##### Duplicate FQDN rules

Two HostRule CRDs cannot be used for the same FQDN information across namespaces. If AKO finds a duplicate FQDN in more than one HostRules, AKO honors the first HostRule that gets created and rejects the others. In case of AKO reboots, the CRD that gets honored might not be the same as the one honored earlier.
